---
title: "The International Workshop on New Approaches in Drug Design & Discovery"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2010-03-25-poster
venue: "Schloss Rauischholzhausen, Germany"
date: 2010-03-25
location: "organized by Uni Marburg, Hessen, Germany"
---

Organized by Prof. Gerhard Klebe and Prof. Christoph Sotriffer . [More information about the conference here](https://www.beactica.com/events/events/the-international-workshop-on-new-approaches-in-drug-design-discovery)

---

I presented a [poster](https://poster.com/) **DOCKING STUDY AND BINARY CLASSIFICATION MODEL OF ISOTHIAZOLONES AS IRREVERSIBLE INHIBITORS OF THE HISTONE ACETYLTRANSFERASE PCAF.**.

ABSTRACT:

Aryl and alkyl N-substituted isothiazolone compounds have been shown to  inhibit the histone acetyltransferase (HAT) PCAF and p300 irreversibly. In this  series of aryl and alkyl N-substituted isothiazolones, the inhibition is due to the  irreversible  interaction  with  thiol  groups  of  the  enzyme.  PCAF  inhibition  of   isothiazolones  is  abolished  in  the  presence  of  thiol-reducing  agents  like  dithiothreitol (DTT). Furthermore, the activity was not restored in experiments involving the incubation of PCAF with two isothiazolones followed by dialysis  for 24 hours.

* Series of isothiazolones have been identified as irreversible PCAF inhibitors.
* Non-covalent and covalent docking of these compounds proved the accessibility of the SN-bond in isothiazolones to the thiol group of Cys574.
* The activity of irreversible inhibitors is related not only to the molecular recognition between the inhibitor and the protein, but also to the reactivity of the ligands and the nucleophilic softness of the thiol group in the protein.
* We found that QM descriptors related to frontier MO theory can describe the reactivity and give good classification models for the studied isothiazolones.
